# Documentation for E03

Student no. 2208339  // vvxyzki

10.xy.yz.0/24     ->     10.08.83.0/24 \
192.168.ki.0/24   ->     192.168.39.0/24

# Calculating Networks

### Exercise 1
```
192.168.39.0/24
```
*Address range:* 
192.168.39.0 **/24**  - 8 bits remaining, 2^8 = 256 possible addresses in the range 0 - 255. 

The 4 octet address divided in 3 octets for network-bits 'n' and 1 octet for host-bits 'h': \
$`\textcolor{blue}{ \text{nnnn nnnn . nnnn nnnn . nnnn nnnn}\  } `$ $`\textcolor{red}{ \text{. hhhh hhhh}\  } `$ \
$`\textcolor{blue}{ \text{network/subnet, 24 bits}\  } `$ $`\textcolor{red}{ \text{host/addresses, 8 bits}\  } `$


**Note:** The very first bit in the host address - the "subnet address", aka *0000 0000 or in decimal .0*, is reserved and not usable for devices in the network. \
The last bit in the host address, *1111 1111 / .255*, is the "broadcast address" and similarily also reserved and cannot be used for devices. \
Remaining amount of possible devices addresses is  then **254**.  
\
So to note the actual usable addresses range would be 192.168.39.1 to 192.168.39.254. 

*Broadcast address:*  \
192.168.39.255 - the last of the host addresses.

*Subnet address:* \
192.168.39.0 - the first of the host addresses.

### Exercise 2
```
10.08.83.0/24 
```
Similar as in Exercise 1, this address subnet mask *noted in slash format /24*,  indicates that we have the following division of subnet bits 'n' and host bits 'h': 

$`\textcolor{blue}{ \text{nnnn nnnn . nnnn nnnn . nnnn nnnn}\  } `$ $`\textcolor{red}{ \text{. hhhh hhhh}\  } `$ \
$`\textcolor{blue}{ \text{network/subnet, 24 bits}\  } `$ $`\textcolor{red}{ \text{host/addresses, 8 bits}\  } `$

\

The exercise asks to divide this net and create new subnets each consisting of a minimum of 50 addresses. 

Following the material and checking the power of 2 for the binary alternatives 2^8 originally gives 256 addresses like shown above. \ 
2^7 gives 128 addresses, 2^6 gives 64 addresses - which is the one we chose as the next option is too small. \ 

So 6 bits needs to be selected as the host-bits:
$`\textcolor{blue}{ \text{nnnn nnnn . nnnn nnnn . nnnn nnnn. nn}\  } `$ $`\textcolor{red}{ \text{hh hhhh}\  } `$ \
$`\textcolor{blue}{ \text{network/subnet, 26 bits}\  } `$ $`\textcolor{red}{ \text{host/addresses, 6 bits}\  } `$


| Specification | Subnet info |
| -----  | -----   |
| Network address  | cell2   |
| New subnet mask  | cell4   |
| Number of usable (host) addresses in the subnet | cell4   |
| First IP Host address  | cell4   |
| Last IP Host address  | cell4   |
| Broadcast address  | cell4   |



```
General information, to be used for my own future info

Address ranges to be use by private networks are:

Class A: 10.0.0.0 to 10.255.255.255
Class B: 172.16.0.0 to 172.31.255.255
Class C: 192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255
```